README.md, before:

A tree-sitter grammar for Pkl.

    # install dependencies
    $ npm install

    # build parser
    $ npm run build

    # parse some code
    $ ./node_modules/.bin/tree-sitter parse test.pkl

# Tests

Tree sitter comes with its own test framework. Files in `test/corpus/`
describe one test each. All tests in `test/corpus/` are performed by the
command

    $ tree-sitter test

# Upgrading tree-sitter

Upgrading tree-sitter involves upgrading the NPM package.

1.  Run `npm update tree-sitter` to install the newer version of tree-sitter.
2.  Commit to main, and push.

# Releasing

1.  Run the build & test to make sure everything is up-to-date and passes (check 0 diff).
2.  Create a `Prepare 1.2.3 release` (with appropriate version number) commit where
  - Versions are bumped in `package.json`, `Cargo.toml`
  - Lockfiles are updated (`npm install`, `cargo check`)
  - You have checked the previous release PR for any changes in process not described in this `README.adoc`; if any
    - Adopt the changes accordingly
    - Update this description to capture the changed process
3. Merge into `main` & push
4. Check that CI release succeeded ([release pipeline](https://app.circleci.com/pipelines/github/apple/tree-sitter-pkl))
5. Check the publication is reachable, [on NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@apple/tree-sitter-pkl)

# Resources
-   [Tree-sitter docs](https://tree-sitter.github.io/tree-sitter/)
-   [Guide to your first Tree-sitter grammar](https://gist.github.com/Aerijo/df27228d70c633e088b0591b8857eeef)

Commit message:

Verify grammar against pkl-core parser

README.md, after:

A tree-sitter grammar for Pkl.

    # install dependencies
    $ npm install

    # build parser
    $ npm run build

    # parse some code
    $ ./node_modules/.bin/tree-sitter parse test.pkl

# Tests

Tree sitter comes with its own test framework. Files in `test/corpus/`
describe one test each. All tests in `test/corpus/` are performed by the
command

    $ tree-sitter test

If the grammar has changed, run `tree-sitter test --update` to update the corpus.

## Snippet Tests

The tests within [test/corpus/snippetTests](test/corpus/snippetTests) are generated from the core Pkl parser, and are not updated by `tree-sitter test --update`.

These tests are generated by running `./gradlew createLanguageSnippetsCorpus`.
This task grabs all language snippet tests, and renders them into a format that can be processed by tree-sitter.

To fix any rendering issues, change [SExprRenderer](buildSrc/src/main/kotlin/SExprRenderer.kt).

# Upgrading tree-sitter

Upgrading tree-sitter involves upgrading the NPM package.

1.  Run `npm update tree-sitter` to install the newer version of tree-sitter.
2.  Commit to main, and push.

# Releasing

1.  Run the build & test to make sure everything is up-to-date and passes (check 0 diff).
2.  Create a `Prepare 1.2.3 release` (with appropriate version number) commit where
  - Versions are bumped in `package.json`, `Cargo.toml`
  - Lockfiles are updated (`npm install`, `cargo check`)
  - You have checked the previous release PR for any changes in process not described in this `README.adoc`; if any
    - Adopt the changes accordingly
    - Update this description to capture the changed process
3. Merge into `main` & push
4. Check that CI release succeeded ([release pipeline](https://app.circleci.com/pipelines/github/apple/tree-sitter-pkl))
5. Check the publication is reachable, [on NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@apple/tree-sitter-pkl)

# Resources
-   [Tree-sitter docs](https://tree-sitter.github.io/tree-sitter/)
-   [Guide to your first Tree-sitter grammar](https://gist.github.com/Aerijo/df27228d70c633e088b0591b8857eeef)
